hey guys I'm going to show you the
basics of storyboarding - animatic the
process of and start off there's lots of
different ways to do this I've done lots
of different ways I had people work for
me do specific ways of work with others
that have their own methods I'm going to
show you my method that I like to use
there's also I kind of bounced around a
little bit too as well I'm sometimes
I'll do it digitally sometimes I'll do
it practically for the most parts I use
cards to start my animatic or my
storyboard and the reason for this is I
get a perfect 16 by 9 aspect ratio so
it's like an HD or a film aspect ratio
also I can draw on multiples of these
these cards index cards and it's got
lines in the back where I can write
notes if need be I have other friends
and I've done this as well as use sticky
notes the little yellow sticky notes but
you know that's all up to you sticky
notes are great because you can promote
sheet but this works perfectly for me I
draw this in pencil I ain't get with a
sharpie or a special you know fine pen
and even a ballpoint pen and then I scan
it into the computer and then once it's
in the computer I do it's the tweaks and
stuff like that so let's go to the
computer side and I'll show you what
what happens from that point on alright
guys so now that you have your your
cards or your pieces of paper scanned
into your computer you're gonna have a
folder of course we're gonna place them
all you want to put them in numerical
order numbered order
so you see me have all those suckers and
then those get scanned in of course
resolution is gonna be different than
what you you want to edit in so you're
gonna bring them into software like
Photoshop Photoshop essentials or GIMP
or any of those picture editing
software's and you're gonna resize them
so in Photoshop I basically go to image
size and change my resolution to 72 dpi
or pixels per inch and then then I
change my width and my height to 1280 by
720 you can change to whatever you like
I'm doing this because that's the
resolution I like to work family I'm
doing animatics and storyboards yeah
and it's it's easier on the computers
you can actually do a whole feature film
in that resolution and then pop that
sucker out and put it into your
stop-motion software as a reference okay
so now I'm gonna hide this Photoshop and
I'm gonna open my Final Cut Pro session
I already have it in place
I've edited imported and edited my whole
down here you can see this my whole
sequence each to the audio and so I have
my yeah the whole thing kind of going
it's rock in there you know so you know
yeah anyway so then I've nested that and
I've applied a timecode to it right and
the purpose of the timecode is so you
can know where your edits are when you
are animating you can go oh okay at
such-and-such
frame seconds and frame I'm gonna go and
change to this this sequence or this
shot and then when you bring your
footage from animating you export this
and then you put this on your stage
you've animated and you take this
footage you've brought it back into your
timeline you your edit will be ready to
go you'll actually be able to pop stuff
right in here and it should match or
you're gonna loop stuff or do whatever
you'll have the timing all planned out
for when you're
and you're gonna you know do your
animation I actually I've exported my
itsy-bitsy spider that's here into an
animatic form and you can see there it's
it's going see timecode and everything
so anyway I hope you enjoyed this little
quick tutorial and you know start
animate man make some stuff and put it
up on the web and send me send me your
videos show them to me because I love
them and if I really like them I put
them in my favorites and you guys can
just you know check out the favorites
section yeah alright so this is John
Cooper from stop-motion magazine keep
animated peace
you